Problem: Cannot Load a Program or Read a Data File. If your attempts to boot up the system, load a program, or read a file only cause a read error message to be returned, then there is probably a problem with the disk drive's read circuitry. Solution: If your system includes a second disk drive, place the program diskette in the other drive, and read the program from there. If your system cannot read from the other drive, then you could have a bad program diskette. Load the backup diskette. If it does load, run the Disk Drive Diagnostic module on a blank, format­ ted diskette. The diagnostic writes a specific pattern to the disk, reads it back, and compares the two to make certain they match. This checks the read/ write logic. Run the diagnostic on the drive that would not load the program. If the test runs successfully, and the test completion message is returned from the diagnostic, then nothing was wrong with your disk drive. It was probably a diskette problem. Try a different diskette in the drive, and it should work. If the diagnostic test fails, or returns a lengthy series of read errors, then either the disk drive or the read circuit on the disk drive controller board is defective. Swap the disk drive on another system. If it does not work, then your drive is faulty and should be taken in for servicing. If the disk drive does work, swap your disk drive controller with another system. If it does not work, then a certain chip on the drive controller board is faulty and should be replaced. Refer to "Working with IC Chips" in Chapter 1 for further instructions on replacing chips. On the II Plus and IIe, use the chip extractor to carefully remove the MC3470 and CA3146 chips, which control the board's read circuitry. On the IIc, remove the IWM chip from the motherboard. Take the chip(s) to an electronics supply store and obtain a replacement(s). Carefully install the new chip(s) in the socket. If both your disk drive and controller work on the other system, but they do not work on yours, then you have a faulty system unit. Refer to Chapter 3 for system unit troubleshooting procedures.