Problem: Certain Characters Do Not Print. Sometimes a certain character does not print. The character exists on the screen, and you know it's available within the printer's character set. However, when you request printer output, the character does not form properly, or there is a black box or blank space where the character should be. Solutions: If you're working with a dot-matrix printer, run the Display Character Print or Echo Character Test of the Printer Diagnostic. If there is a black box or blank space where a character is supposed to be, then the printer is probably not set up to accommodate graphics. As discussed earlier, there are several types of dot-matrix printers. One type accommodates graphic characters as well as the standard alphanumeric characters. Another type operates only in the character mode. If yours is a character printer, it cannot print graphics characters. It may be confusing to see the graphics character on the monitor display, but not get it to print. This is because different makes of printers support different character sets. Some character sets are more limited than others. Be sure to send only valid characters to your printer. In the case of a letter-quality printer, the daisy wheel is limited in size and can usually only accommodate about 100 upper- and lowercase characters. Because of this, it is likely that the daisy wheel does not include any special graphics characters. (However, special graphics daisy wheels are available which include such characters as part of their character sets. Consult the printer manufacturer or a printer retail outlet). If your letter-quality printer is having trouble with regular alphanumeric characters, the problem is entirely different. For example, if the "a"s do not appear wherever they're supposed to, run the Sliding Alpha or Echo Character Test of the Printer Diagnostic to see if both the uppercase "A" and lowercase "a" are missing. If this is true, the physical character position on the daisy wheel or cup has broken off its stem. Daisy wheels and cups are fragile, and characters can break off. Remove the daisy wheel and examine it to confirm that it is indeed damaged. Buy a new daisy wheel to replace the broken one. It's a good practice to keep at least one backup daisy wheel on hand.