Problem: Paper Does Not Feed Properly. The printer might not feed the paper correctly. Certain commands issued from the application program to the printer can cause the paper to feed several lines, similar to carriage returns on a typewriter. When working with special forms like checks and invoices, the application program sets up the line spacing to occur in a specific pattern that is more complex than single- or double-spacing. Also, you might enter a form feed command at a defined point, thus causing the printer to roll up to the next form. Problems can occur when the specified vertical spacing does not work as expected. The specified number of lines between text might not feed, or the paper might bunch up and jam as it's rolling to the next page. Solutions: Run the Line Feed Test of the Printer Diagnostic module to check the carriage control. This test prints lines with variable line spacing and then it feeds the paper up to the next page. If this does not take place as expected, check that the paper has been correctly inserted into the printer. If working with continuous feed paper on a forms tractor, check that the paper is not pulled too tight or left too loose in the tractor clamps. Check the platen adjustment. There is a lever that loosens the platen when rolling the paper in. Then in order for the paper to automatically feed with the forms tractor, the platen must be set at the locked position. Check for a scrap of paper or other foreign object that could have lodged into the platen or into the paper feed area. If you cannot reach it with your fingers, remove it with tweezers, compressed air, or a hand-held vacuum cleaner. If you suspect that the printer is inserting extra spaces between lines, run the Sliding Alpha Test of the Printer Diagnostic. The output should appear single-spaced. If there are blank line spaces in between the printed lines, there may be a faulty option switch setting that's causing the extra line feeds. Check the printer documentation for more information about switch set­tings. If none of these suggestions correct the line spacing problem, refer to the printer documentation or call the manufacturer for recommendations.